Updated quick-start.md (#73)
kubewarden/docs: src/quick-start.md

The Kubewarden stack is made of the following components:

* An arbitrary number of `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` resources: this is how policies are defined inside Kubernetes
* An arbitrary number of `PolicyServer` resources: this component represents a Deployment of a Kubewarden `policy-server`. The policies defined by the administrators are loaded and evaluated by the Kubewarden `policy-server`
* A Deployment of `kubewarden-controller`: this is the controller that monitors the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` resources and interacts with the Kubewarden `policy-server` components

## Installation

> **PREREQUISITES:**
>
> Currently, the chart depends on cert-manager. Make sure you have [`cert-manager` installed](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/) *before* installing the kubewarden-controller chart.
>
> You can install the latest version of `cert-manager` by running the following commands: 
>

> ```shell

Reviewer: Nit: I think using `shell` instead of `console` for the code block is ok, but note that the lone `wait` gets highlighted then (and other tokens may get too, such as `for`, or so).

Author: oh ok, good point, I wanted to have a standardization over the code blocks that are not language (read: YAML) specific.

@viccuad @flavio should I go for `console` instead then?

Reviewer: I would prefer `console`, yep :).

kubectl apply -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/latest/download/cert-manager.yaml

kubectl wait --for=condition=Available deployment --timeout=2m -n cert-manager --all
```

> The Kubewarden stack can be deployed using a `helm` charts as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubewarden stack can be deployed using `helm` charts as follow:
```

```shell

> helm repo add kubewarden https://charts.kubewarden.io

Reviewer: Nit: we were missing a `helm repo update` afterwards, before this PR.

Author: Before I wrote the quickstart, I went through it "as is", and adding the `helm` repo and then installing Kubewarden didn't throw any error.

Could it be a `helm` cli version maybe? I did all my testing with the version 3.6.3 which comes with Rancher Desktop

Reviewer: maybe it was an old version thing! tried here, I don't need to do helm repo update either.

helm install --wait -n kubewarden --create-namespace kubewarden-crds kubewarden/kubewarden-crds

helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-controller kubewarden/kubewarden-controller
```

> The following components should be installed inside the `kubewarden` namespace in your Kubernetes cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following charts should be installed inside the `kubewarden` namespace in your Kubernetes cluster:
```

> * `kubewarden-crds` which will register the

Reviewer: Nit: 
```suggestion
* `kubewarden-crds`, which will register the
```

> `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` and `PolicyServer` Custom Resources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`ClusterAdmissionPolicy` and `PolicyServer` Custom Resource Definitions
```

> `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` and `PolicyServer` Custom Resource Definitions

Reviewer 3: This can be consolidated into one line like the changes at the beginning of the file.

* `kubewarden-controller` with

> a default configuration and which will create a `PolicyServer` resource named `default`. 

Reviewer: Nit: 
Nit:

```suggestion
a default configuration, and which will create a `PolicyServer` resource named `default`. 
```
(Oxford comma; who creates the PolicyServer resource, the default configuration, or kubewarden-controller?)

> a default configuration, and which will create a `PolicyServer` resource named `default`. 

Reviewer 3: This can be consolidated into one line like the changes at the beginning of the file.

> > **QUICK NOTES:**

Reviewer 3: Maybe go with the singular form for now since there's only one note.

>

> > The default configuration values should be good enough for the majority of deployments, and all the options are documented [here](https://charts.kubewarden.io/#configuration).
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The default configuration values should be good enough for the majority of deployments. All options are documented [here](https://charts.kubewarden.io/#configuration).

```

## Main components

Kubewarden has two main components which you will interact with:

> * The Policy Server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The PolicyServer
```
This was there before the PR. Since our Kubernetes Custom Resource Definition is named [PolicyServer](https://doc.crds.dev/github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden-controller/policies.kubewarden.io/PolicyServer/v1alpha2@v0.4.1) (altogether), I think it would be less confusing if we use that notation through the rest of quickstart.

(Note: one thing is the `PolicyServer`, a Kubernetes CRD, and another the `policy-server`, the binary run inside a container)

`ClusterAdmissionPolicy` and `PolicyServer` Custom Resources

* `kubewarden-controller` with
the default configuration. It will create a `PolicyServer` resource named `default`. The components of the
Kubewarden stack will be deployed inside of a Kubernetes Namespace
called `kubewarden`.
a default configuration and which will create a `PolicyServer` resource named `default`. 

> **QUICK NOTES:**
>
> The default configuration values should be good enough for the majority of deployments, and all the options are documented [here](https://charts.kubewarden.io/#configuration).

## Main components

The default configuration values should be good enough for the majority of
deployments, all the options are documented [here](https://charts.kubewarden.io/#configuration).
Kubewarden has two main components which you will interact with:
* The Policy Server
* The ClusterAdmissionPolicy

The Kubewarden Policy Servers are completely managed by the `kubewarden-controller`.
### Policy Server

## Policy Server
A Kubewarden Policy Server is completely managed by the `kubewarden-controller` and multiple Policy Servers can be deployed in the same Kubernetes cluster.

> Represents a Deployment of Kubewarden `policy-server`, which receives the requests to be validated. It does that

Reviewer: Here we were talking about the binary that gets run in a Deployment, if a PolicyServer is created. I think it was confusing, as there's not much to be gained from that info in the quickstart. I propose we substitute all `policy-server` instances with `PolicyServer`. We can keep this line or similar, explaining that instantiating a `PolicyServer` will create a Deployment with the server, so people know what to expect.

Overview of the attributes of the `PolicyServer` resource:

| Required | Placeholder         | Description    |
|:--------:| ------------------- | ----------------------------- |

> | [x] | `image`  | The name of the container image |

Reviewer: Nit: tried building the book locally (from the .github/workflow, it seems to be `mdbook build`) and the `[x]` don't render on the html that would get deployed.

Reviewer 4: Good catch, maybe we can replace that with a emojii like :heavy_check_mark:

| ✅ | `replicas`  | The number of desired instances |

> | - | `serviceAccountName` | The name of the `ServiceAccount` to use for the `PolicyServer` deployment. If no value is provided, the `ServiceAccount` from the `default` namespace will be used |

Reviewer 4: It is not correct to state that the `ServiceAccount` from the `default` namespace will be used. We are not deploying the controller inside of the `default` namespace.

What happens is, the `default` ServiceAccount of the namespace where the controller is deployed is going to be used.

Author: Rephrased as suggested

> | - | `serviceAccountName` | The name of the `ServiceAccount` to use for the `PolicyServer` deployement. If no value is provided, the `ServiceAccount` from the `default` namespace will be used |

Reviewer 5: Fix typo

```suggestion
| - | `serviceAccountName` | The name of the `ServiceAccount` to use for the `PolicyServer` deployment. If no value is provided, the `ServiceAccount` from the `default` namespace will be used |
```

| [] | `env` | The list of environment variables |
| [] | `annotations` | The list of annotations |

Changing any of these attributes will lead to a rollout of the `policy-server` Deployment with the new configuration.

### ClusterAdmissionPolicy

> The `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` resource is the core of the Kubewarden stack. This component defines how the policies are validated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` resource is the core of the Kubewarden stack. This resource defines how the policies are evaluated.
```

Nit: policies are not validated, the new resources that get evaluated by the policies are.(well yes, policies are validated, but they normally get validated by testing them when writing them, and yes, they get validated by the policy-server when instantiating them. I just worry that this is more )

> The `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` resource is the core of the Kubewarden stack. This resource defines how the policies are evaluated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` resource is the core of the Kubewarden stack. This resource defines how policies evaluate requests.
```

> Enforcing policies is the most common operation which a Kubernetes administrator will perform. You can declare as many policies as you want, and each policy will target a specific Kubernetes resource (i.e. ` pods`) and list the type of operation that can be applied for the targeted resource (i.e. `CREATE` or `UPDATE`).

Reviewer 4: There are just 4 types of actions, maybe we can just mention all of them here:  CREATE, UPDATE, DELETE, or CONNECT

Author: Added the remaining actions

> Enforcing policies is the most common operation which a Kubernetes administrator will perform. You can declare as many policies as you want, and each policy will target a specific Kubernetes resource (i.e. ` pods`) and list the type of operation that will be applied for the targeted resource. The operations available are `CREATE`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE` and `CONNECT`.

Reviewer 2: While I think this is good for the quickstart, in principle there is no restriction of a policy having to target a single specific resource. It can target as many different types of resources it wants, and they don't have to be core Kubernetes types.

A policy might act on specific Custom Resources as well, and a single policy can target e.g. two different types of resources. Although it's probably not recommended, it's perfectly possible and up to the policy author.

> Enforcing policies is the most common operation which a Kubernetes administrator will perform. You can declare as many policies as you want, and each policy will target one or more specific Kubernetes resources (i.e. `pods`, `Custom Resource`). You will also specify the type of operation(s) that will be applied for the targeted resource(s). The operations available are `CREATE`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE` and `CONNECT`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Enforcing policies is the most common operation which a Kubernetes administrator will perform. You can declare as many policies as you want, and each policy will target one or more specific Kubernetes resources (i.e., `pods`, `Custom Resource`). You will also specify the type of operation(s) that will be applied for the targeted resource(s). The operations available are `CREATE`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE` and `CONNECT`.
```

    - NET_ADMIN
```

Overview of the attributes of the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` resource:

| Required | Placeholder         | Description    |
|:--------:| ------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| - | `policy-server`  | identifies an existing `PolicyServer` object. The policy will be served only by this `PolicyServer` instance. A `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` that doesn't have an explicit `PolicyServer`, will be served by the one named `default`. |
| ✅ | `module`  | The location of the Kubewarden policy. The following options are allowed:  |
| | | - `registry`: The policy is downloaded from an [OCI artifacts](https://github.com/opencontainers/artifacts) compliant container registry |
| | | - `http`, `https`: The policy is downloaded from a regular HTTP(s) server |

> | | | - `file`: The policy is loaded from a file in the computer filesystem |

Reviewer 4: Should we make explicit these are URLs? Maybe write something like `registry://`, `http://`, `https://` and `file://` ?

Author: Added examples

| ✅ | `resources` | The Kubernetes resources evaluated by the policy |
| ✅ | `operations` | what operations for the previously given types should be forwarded to this admission policy by the API server for evaluation. |
| ✅ | `mutating` | a boolean value that must be set to `true` for policies that can mutate incoming requests |

> | - | `settings` | The list of the policy configuration values |

Reviewer 4: nitpicking, `settings` is a dictionary, not a list. As a developer I would be mislead by "the list of..."

Author: Rephrased as suggested, might have a better way to phrase it still

| | | - `Fail`: an error calling the webhook causes the admission to fail and the API request to be rejected |

The complete documentation of this Custom Resource can be found [here](https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden-controller/blob/main/docs/crds/README.asciidoc) or on [docs.crds.dev](https://doc.crds.dev/github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden-controller).

> **NOTE:** The  `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` resources are registered with a `*` webhook `scope`, which means that registered webhooks will be forwarded all requests matching the given `resources` and `operations` -- either namespaced (in any namespace), or cluster-wide resources.

> **NOTE:** The `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` resource is cluster-wide. There are plans to also provide a namespaced version that will only impact registered namespaced resources on its own namespace.

## Example: Enforce your first policy

For this first example, we will use the [`pod-privileged` policy](https://github.com/kubewarden/pod-privileged-policy).
Our goal will be to prevent the creation of privileged containers inside our Kubernetes cluster by enforcing this policy.

Let's define a `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` for that:

> ```console

Reviewer 4: Not related to your change. We just renamed some of our PSP policies.

Can you replace `module: registry://ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/pod-privileged:v0.1.5` with `module: registry://ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/privileged-psp:v0.1.9`?

Author: Updated policy reference

    - NET_ADMIN
```

Overview of the attributes of the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` resource:

| Required | Placeholder         | Description    |
|:--------:| ------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| - | `policy-server`  | identifies an existing `PolicyServer` object. The policy will be served only by this `PolicyServer` instance. A `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` that doesn't have an explicit `PolicyServer`, will be served by the one named `default`. |

> | ✅ | `module`  | The location of the Kubewarden policy. The following options are allowed:  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| ✅ | `module`  | The location of the Kubewarden policy. The following schemes are allowed:  |
```

> | | | - `registry`: The policy is downloaded from an [OCI artifacts](https://github.com/opencontainers/artifacts) compliant container registry. Example: `registry://<OCI registry/policy URL>` |

Reviewer 2: As discussed, we are keeping it like it is.

| | | - `http`, `https`: The policy is downloaded from a regular HTTP(s) server. Example: `https://<website/policy URL>` |

> | | | - `file`: The policy is loaded from a file in the computer filesystem. Example: `file://<policy WASM binary full path>` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| | | - `file`: The policy is loaded from a file in the computer filesystem. Example: `file:///<policy WASM binary full path>` |
```

| ✅ | `resources` | The Kubernetes resources evaluated by the policy |

> | ✅ | `operations` | what operations for the previously given types should be forwarded to this admission policy by the API server for evaluation. |

Reviewer 2: There is also a discrepancy on some descriptions ending with dot vs dotless

| ✅ | `mutating` | a boolean value that must be set to `true` for policies that can mutate incoming requests |

> | - | `settings` | The dictionary (key/values pair) of the policy configuration |

Reviewer 2: Settings is a fully fledged structure, so it doesn't need to be a key/value pair only.

> | - | `failurePolicy` | The action to take if the policy  unrecognized or timeout error. The following options are allowed: |

Reviewer 2: There is something missing on this description

| | | - `Ignore`: an error calling the webhook is ignored and the API request is allowed to continue |
| | | - `Fail`: an error calling the webhook causes the admission to fail and the API request to be rejected |

The complete documentation of this Custom Resource can be found [here](https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden-controller/blob/main/docs/crds/README.asciidoc) or on [docs.crds.dev](https://doc.crds.dev/github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden-controller).

> > **NOTE:** The  `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` resources are registered with a `*` webhook `scope`, which means that registered webhooks will be forwarded all requests matching the given `resources` and `operations` -- either namespaced (in any namespace), or cluster-wide resources.

Reviewer 2: The `ClusterAdmissionPolicies` are not registered with a `*` webhook scope. The target is provided in the `ClsuterAdmissionPolicy` and respected. Kubewarden does not register kind of request-sink.

Reviewer 2: Ugh, completely misread this.

```shell
kubectl get clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/privileged-pods
```

You should see the following output:

```shell
NAME              POLICY SERVER   MUTATING   STATUS
privileged-pods   default         false      pending
```

Once the new policy is ready to be served, the `kubewarden-controller` will register a [ValidatingWebhookConfiguration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.20/#validatingwebhookconfiguration-v1-admissionregistration-k8s-io) object.

The `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` status will be set to `active` once the Deployment is done for every `policy-server` instances. The `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` can be shown with the following command:

```shell
kubectl get validatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io -l kubewarden
```

You should see the following output:

```
NAME              WEBHOOKS   AGE
privileged-pods   1          9s
```

Once the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` is active and the `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` is registered, you can test the policy.

> First, let's create a Pod without any Container `privileged` flag:

Reviewer: Nit:

```suggestion
First, let's create a Pod with a Container *not* in `privileged` mode:
```

Flag would be `--privileged`, as when one uses a cli such as docker. Here we are telling Kubernetes to start a container without privileged mode (see wording for example in https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/#privileged)

```

This will produce the following output:
```console
clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/privileged-pods created
```

When a  `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` is defined, the status is set to `pending`, and it will force a rollout of the targeted `PolicyServer`. In our example, it's the `PolicyServer` named `default`. You can monitor the rollout by running the following command:

```console
kubectl get clusteradmissionpolicy.policies.kubewarden.io/privileged-pods
```

You should see the following output:

```console
NAME              POLICY SERVER   MUTATING   STATUS
privileged-pods   default         false      pending
```

Once the new policy is ready to be served, the `kubewarden-controller` will register a [ValidatingWebhookConfiguration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.20/#validatingwebhookconfiguration-v1-admissionregistration-k8s-io) object.

> The `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` status will be set to `active` once the Deployment is done for every `PolicyServer` instances. The `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` can be shown with the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` status will be set to `active` once the Deployment is done for every `PolicyServer` instance. The `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` can be shown with the following command:
```

EOF
```

This will produce the following output:

```console
pod/unprivileged-pod created
```

> The Pod was successfully created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Pod is successfully created.
```

EOF
```

The creation of the Pod has been denied by the policy and you should see the following message:

```shell
Error from server: error when creating "STDIN": admission webhook "privileged-pods.kubewarden.admission" denied the request: User 'minikube-user' cannot schedule privileged containers
```

> > **NOTE:** both examples didn't define a `namespace`, which means the `default` namespace was the target. However, has you could see in the second example, the policy was still applied. As stated above, this is due to the scope being cluster-wide and not targetting a specific namespace.

Reviewer: :heart:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** both examples didn't define a `namespace`, which means the `default` namespace was the target. However, as you could see in the second example, the policy was still applied. As stated above, this is due to the scope being cluster-wide and not targeting a specific namespace.
```

## Uninstall

You can remove the resources created by uninstalling the `helm` charts as follow:

```shell
helm uninstall --namespace kubewarden kubewarden-controller
helm uninstall --namespace kubewarden kubewarden-crds
```

Once this is done you can remove the Kubernetes namespace that was used to deploy
the Kubewarden stack:
Once the `helm` charts have been uninstalled, you can remove the Kubernetes namespace that was used to deploy the Kubewarden stack:

```shell
kubectl delete namespace kubewarden
```

> **Note:** kubewarden contains a helm pre-delete hook that will remove all `PolicyServers` and `kubewarden-controller`.
> Then the `kubewarden-controller` will delete all resources, so it is important that `kubewarden-controller` is running
> when helm uninstall is executed.
> Then the `kubewarden-controller` will delete all resources, so it is important that `kubewarden-controller` is running when helm uninstall is executed.

`ValidatingWebhookConfigurations` and `MutatingWebhookConfigurations` created by kubewarden should be deleted, this can be checked with:

```shell

> kubectl get validatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io -l "kubewarden" && \

Reviewer: Nit: we could remove the `&& \` on line 278 for consistency.

> You should get 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Uninstall

You can remove the resources created by uninstalling the `helm` charts as follow:

```console
helm uninstall --namespace kubewarden kubewarden-controller

helm uninstall --namespace kubewarden kubewarden-crds
```

Once the `helm` charts have been uninstalled, you can remove the Kubernetes namespace that was used to deploy the Kubewarden stack:

```console
kubectl delete namespace kubewarden
```

> **Note:** kubewarden contains a helm pre-delete hook that will remove all `PolicyServers` and `kubewarden-controller`.
> Then the `kubewarden-controller` will delete all resources, so it is important that `kubewarden-controller` is running when helm uninstall is executed.

`ValidatingWebhookConfigurations` and `MutatingWebhookConfigurations` created by kubewarden should be deleted, this can be checked with:

```console
kubectl get validatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io -l "kubewarden"

kubectl get mutatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io -l "kubewarden"
```

> If these resources are not automatically removed, you can do remove them manually by using the following command:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If these resources are not automatically removed, you can remove them manually by using the following command:
```

EOF
```

The creation of the Pod has been denied by the policy and you should see the following message:

```console
Error from server: error when creating "STDIN": admission webhook "privileged-pods.kubewarden.admission" denied the request: User 'minikube-user' cannot schedule privileged containers
```

> > **NOTE:** both examples didn't define a `namespace`, which means the `default` namespace was the target. However, as you could see in the second example, the policy was still applied. As stated above, this is due to the scope being cluster-wide and not targeting a specific namespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** both examples didn't define a `namespace`, which means the `default` namespace was the target. However, as you could see in the second example, the policy is still applied. As stated above, this is due to the scope being cluster-wide and not targeting a specific namespace.
```

```

> **Note:** kubewarden contains a helm pre-delete hook that will remove all `PolicyServers` and `kubewarden-controller`.
> Then the `kubewarden-controller` will delete all resources, so it is important that `kubewarden-controller` is running when helm uninstall is executed.

`ValidatingWebhookConfigurations` and `MutatingWebhookConfigurations` created by kubewarden should be deleted, this can be checked with:

```console
kubectl get validatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io -l "kubewarden"

kubectl get mutatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io -l "kubewarden"
```

If these resources are not automatically removed, you can remove them manually by using the following command:

```console
kubectl delete -l "kubewarden" validatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io

kubectl delete -l "kubewarden" mutatingwebhookconfigurations.admissionregistration.k8s.io
```
## Wrapping up

As we have seen, the `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` resource is the core type that a cluster operator has to manage, the rest of the resources needed to run the policies and configure them will be taken care of automatically by the `kubewarden-controller` module.

> Now, you are ready to deploy Kubewarden and you can have a look at the policies in [hub.kubewarden.io](https://hub.kubewarden.io),[on Github](https://github.com/topics/kubewarden-policy), or reuse existing Rego policies as shown in the [following chapters!](./writing-policies/rego/01-intro.md) 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, you are ready to deploy Kubewarden and you can have a look at the policies in [hub.kubewarden.io](https://hub.kubewarden.io), [on Github](https://github.com/topics/kubewarden-policy), or reuse existing Rego policies as shown in the [following chapters!](./writing-policies/rego/01-intro.md) 
```
